.TH bemenu 1 2019-08-07

.SH NAME
bemenu \- Dynamic menu inspired by
.BR dmenu (1)

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bemenu
.RB [ -hviw ]
.RB [ -l
.IR lines ]
.RB [ -p
.IR prompt ]
.RB [ -P
.IR prefix ]
.RB [ -I
.IR index ]
.RB [ --scrollbar
.IR when ]
.RB [ --ifne ]
.RI [ backend-options ]

.B bemenu-run ...

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bemenu
is a dynamic menu for
.BR tty (4)
(using
.BR ncurses (3)),
X11 and/or Wayland, inspired by
.RB dmenu (1).
It reads a list of newline-separated items from standard input.
When the user selects an item and presses Return,
their choice is printed to standard output and bemenu terminates.
Entering text will narrow the items to those matching the tokens in the input.

.B bemenu-run
is a special-case invocation of
.BR bemenu ,
where the input is a list of executables in the $PATH directories,
and the selection gets executed.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display bemenu help and exit.

.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Display bemenu version and exit.

.TP
.B \-i, \-\-ignorecase
Match items case-insensitively.

.TP
.B \-w, \-\-wrap
Wraps cursor selection.

.TP
.BI \-l \ NUMBER ,\ \-\-list= NUMBER
Lists items vertically with the given \fINUMBER\fR of lines.

.TP
.BI \-p \ PROMPT ,\ \-\-prompt= PROMPT
Defines the \fIPROMPT\fR text to be displayed.

.TP
.BI \-P \ PREFIX ,\ \-\-prefix= PREFIX
Text to show before highlighted item.

.TP
.BI \-I \ INDEX ,\ \-\-index= INDEX
Select item at \fIINDEX\fR automatically.

.TP
.BI \-\-scrollbar= WHEN
Display a scrollbar.
Valid values for \fIWHEN\fR are:
.RS
.TP
.I none
Never show the scrollbar. (default)
.TP
.I always
Always show the scrollbar.
.TP
.I autohide
Show scrollbar only when necessary.
.RE

.TP
.B \-\-ifne
Only displays the menu when there are items.

.TP
.B \-\-fork
Always fork. (bemenu-run)
By default terminal backends won't fork.

.TP
.B \-\-no\-exec
Do not execute command. (bemenu-run)
Instead of running the selected item, send to stdout.

.SS Backend-specific Options

These options are only available on backends specified in the parentheses
(Curses, Wayland and/or X11).

.TP
.BR "\-b, \-\-bottom"
(Wayland, X11) The menu will appear at the bottom of the screen.

.TP
.BR "\-f, \-\-grab"
(Wayland, X11) Show the menu before reading the standard input.

.TP
.BR "\-n, \-\-no\-overlap"
(Wayland) Adjust geometry to not overlap with panels.

.TP
.BI \-m " INDEX" ", \-\-monitor=" INDEX
(Wayland, X11) Specify \fIINDEX\fR of the monitor where the menu should appear.
(Wayland) If index is \fI-1\fR or \fIall\fR then the menu will appear on all monitors.

.TP
.BI \-H " HEIGHT" ", \-\-line\-height=" HEIGHT
(Wayland, X11) Defines the \fIHEIGHT\fR to make each menu line. Use \fI0\fR for default height.

.TP
.BI \-\-fn " NAME [SIZE]"
(Wayland, X11) Defines the font to be used.

.TP
.BI \-\-tb= COLOR
(Wayland, X11) Defines the title background \fICOLOR\fR.

.TP
.BI \-\-tf= COLOR
(Wayland, X11) Defines the title foreground \fICOLOR\fR.

.TP
.BI \-\-fb= COLOR
(Wayland, X11) Defines the filter background \fICOLOR\fR.

.TP
.BI \-\-ff= COLOR
(Wayland, X11) Defines the filter foreground \fICOLOR\fR.

.TP
.BI \-\-nb= COLOR
(Wayland, X11) Defines the normal background \fICOLOR\fR.

.TP
.BI \-\-nf= COLOR
(Wayland, X11) Defines the normal foreground \fICOLOR\fR.

.TP
.BI \-\-hb= COLOR
(Wayland, X11) Defines the highlighted background \fICOLOR\fR.

.TP
.BI \-\-hf= COLOR
(Wayland, X11) Defines the highlighted foreground \fICOLOR\fR.

.TP
.BI \-\-sb= COLOR
(Wayland, X11) Defines the selected background \fICOLOR\fR.

.TP
.BI \-\-sf= COLOR
(Wayland, X11) Defines the selected foreground \fICOLOR\fR.

.TP
.BI \-\-scb= COLOR
(Wayland, X11) Defines the scrollbar background \fICOLOR\fR.

.TP
.BI \-\-scf= COLOR
(Wayland, X11) Defines the scrollbar foreground \fICOLOR\fR.

.SH EXIT STATUS

0 when the user selects an option, 1 when the user aborts the selection.

.SH ENVIRONMENT

.TP
.B BEMENU_OPTS
.RS
Alternative way to pass any command line argument from the environment.
.RE

.TP
.B BEMENU_BACKEND
.RS
If set, the appropriate backend will be forced.
If empty, one of the GUI backends (Wayland, X11) will be selected automatically.

The accepted values are:
.TP
.I curses
.BR ncurses (3)
based terminal backend.
.TP
.I wayland
Wayland backend.
.TP
.I x11
X11 backend.
.RE

.TP
.B BEMENU_RENDERER
.RS
Force backend by loading a .so file.
.RE

.TP
.B BEMENU_RENDERERS
.RS
Override the backend search path.
.RE
